Progress Report - November 2021 (#303)
yuzu-emu/yuzu-emu.github.io: site/content/entry/yuzu-progress-report-nov-2021/index.md

Again, just like S8_UINT, AMD and Intel hardware lack Vulkan support for S8_UINT_D24_UNORM.

vonchenplus also [converted all usages of legacy attributes](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7375) within shaders into generic attributes, since they were not 
supported by some graphics drivers, improving compatibility.

These four changes help `DRAGON QUEST BUILDERS`, but more work is required to make the game playable. If you're interested in testing this game, use Vulkan, or 
disable Asynchronous GPU Emulation when using OpenGL.
Beware, crashes may happen.

{{< imgs
	"./dqb.png| Missing graphics make the game not an optimal experience for now (DRAGON QUEST BUILDERS)"
  >}}

Back to fixes to the changes introduced by the resolution scaler, users reported that taking screenshots at 1x resolution multiplier resulted in saved images with a size 
higher than the rendering resolution of the game.
A mix up resulted in the screenshot being saved at the window size instead of the game’s framebuffer size.
epicboy [fixed the logic](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7389) and we’re back to proper screenshot resolutions.

> [liushuyu](https://github.com/liushuyu), our fantastic Webadmin, got reports of multiple GPU systems having crashes while running the Flatpak version of yuzu on Linux.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[liushuyu](https://github.com/liushuyu), our fantastic web admin, got reports of multiple GPU systems having crashes while running the Flatpak version of yuzu on Linux.
```

If you want to link to the reports, here they are:
- https://github.com/flathub/org.yuzu_emu.yuzu/issues/200
- https://github.com/flathub/org.yuzu_emu.yuzu/issues/218

> Seems like the bundled version of mesa and ffmpeg will conflict on systems with different GPU vendors. Just the usual weird GNOME decisions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Seems like the bundled version of mesa and ffmpeg will not work on systems with different GPU vendors. Just the usual weird GNOME decisions.
```

Hmm, technically speaking, it's not a "conflict". It just does not work since the bundled ffmpeg is broken.
Also, if we want to lay the blame on GNOME, we probably want to explain that even the `ffmpeg-full` Flatpak bundle is broken and unusable (lacking NVDEC, no proper VDPAU support for NVIDIA, borked codec selection etc). (And probably explain that GNOME is currently in charge of Flatpak and FlatHub for those who don't know)

liushuyu submitted [two](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7431) [separate](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7467) pull requests addressing this problem, but more 
edge cases continue to appear, so the battle isn’t over yet.

> While we continue to work to win this war against Flatpak, please stick to using our appimages, or [manually build yuzu](https://yuzu-emu.org/wiki/building-for-linux/) if 
> you prefer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While we continue to work to win this war against Flatpak, please stick to using our [AppImages](https://yuzu-emu.org/downloads/#linux), or [manually build yuzu](https://yuzu-emu.org/wiki/building-for-linux/) if 
you prefer.
```

You probably want to add that if manually building yuzu from the source code, the user is responsible to make sure the ffmpeg libraries in their system are capable of hardware decoding or at least not broken and make sure they support all of VP8, VP9, and H264 codecs.

user experience.
At the moment this behaviour only works correctly on Linux, Windows’ Qt doesn’t yet support system wide themes.

[Some degenerate writer](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7342) decided that the previous missing keys error screen wasn’t clear enough, so it got replaced while 
refusing to elaborate any further.

{{< single-title-imgs
    "For some reason, people seem to forget what hyperlinks are for"
    "./keysbug.png"
    "./keysfix.png"
    >}}

While working on the resolution scaler and its included filters, Blinkhawk named FSR `AMD'S FIDELITYFX SR` on the bottom status bar. 
A bit too long, so Morph [renamed it](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7369) to just `FSR`.
Small change, but more pleasing to the eyes.

{{< single-title-imgs
    "Better, don't you agree?"
    "./fsrbug.png"
    "./fsrfix.png"
    >}}

[Kewlan](https://github.com/Kewlan) brings a very nice addition to high refresh rate users.
With the introduction of the FPS unlimiter that players can toggle by pressing `Ctrl + U` while playing, a cap was introduced in the configuration, to allow setting a 
multiplier of the native framerate as the upper limit.

> So for example, if a game runs at 30FPS, and the user wants to limit it to 120FPS to better match the maximum refresh rate of their display, a 4x multiplier would be 
> needed, and a 2x one would do if the game runs at 60FPS natively.
> 
> The problem with this approach is that as shown in the example, different games will run at different framerates natively, so a global value just won’t do.
> Kewlan [added support for framerate caps in the custom configuration](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7404), users can access it by right clicking a game in yuzu’s 
> list and selecting properties. This way, the user can set their prefered cap on a per-game basis.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if a game runs at 30FPS, and the user wants to limit it to 120FPS to better match the maximum refresh rate of their display, a 4x multiplier would be 
needed. A 2x multiplier if the game runs at 60FPS natively.

The problem with this approach is that as shown in the example, different games will run at different framerates natively, so a global value isn't ideal.
Kewlan [added support for framerate caps in the custom configuration](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7404) and users can access it by right clicking a game in yuzu’s list and selecting properties. This way, the user can set their preferred cap on a per-game basis.
```

{{< single-title-imgs

>     "If you buy a new display, remember to manually incerase the refresh rate!"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "If you buy a new display, remember to manually increase the refresh rate!"
```

    "./cap1.png"
    "./cap2.png"
    >}}

If the user wants a value that isn’t a multiple of the native framerate of the game, they can use software like 

> [MSI Afterburner](https://www.guru3d.com/files-details/msi-afterburner-beta-download.html) to dial a custom limit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[MSI Afterburner](https://www.guru3d.com/files-details/msi-afterburner-beta-download.html) to specify a custom limit.
```

There has been some extensive work to improve hotkeys.

> [v1993](https://github.com/v1993) got a report that yuzu’s window will flicker if the user holds the Esc key when trying to exit fullscreen. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[v1993](https://github.com/v1993) received a report that yuzu’s window will flicker if the user holds the `Esc` key when trying to exit fullscreen. 
```

[That won’t happen any more](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7353).

> german77 discovered that holding a hotkey would constantly spam it, that made him angry, and [this behaviour is no more](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7355).
> 
> [heinarmann](https://github.com/heinermann) [replaced the emulation shortcuts and states](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7419):
> 
> `Start` has been removed and `Continue` was moved to `Pause` when applicable.
> Exiting the emulator will now work while in fullscreen.
> `Restart` will no longer cause a crash.
> `Load Amiibo` was improved. We still have issues with several games when using this function, so consider it in a beta state.
> `TAS` [got it’s own submenu](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7406) in `Tools > TAS`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
german77 discovered that holding a hotkey would constantly spam the input. This was unintended, so he ensured [this behaviour was no more](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7355).

[heinarmann](https://github.com/heinermann) replaced [the emulation shortcuts and states](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7419):

Our Menu bar entries have seen some changes. In `Emulation`, the `Start` button has been removed and `Continue` will now say `Pause` when applicable and vice versa. `Restart` will no longer cause a crash.
In `File`, `Load Amiibo...` was improved. We still have issues with several games when using this function, so consider it in a beta state.
`TAS` [received its own submenu](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7406) in `Tools > TAS`. And in exciting news, Exiting the emulator will now work while in fullscreen!
```

{{< single-title-imgs
    " "
    "./tasbug.png"
    "./tasfix.png"
    >}}

## Kernel fixes

> Morph fixed [a compilation warning](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7278) in the kernel `SVC::WaitSynchronization`, where the parameter "num_handles" was wrongly 
> declared as unsigned integer when it was actually a signed integer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Morph fixed [a compilation warning](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7278) in the kernel `SVC::WaitSynchronization`, where the parameter `num_handles` was wrongly 
declared as an unsigned integer when it was actually a signed integer.
```

> heinermann discovered a bug in the kernel that crashed yuzu upon exiting.
> 
> This happened because dummy threads in the kernel weren't getting destroyed properly. When you exited yuzu during emulation or after stopping emulation, these threads 
> stayed alive even though the kernel got destroyed, thus causing yuzu to crash.
> 
> [By making the kernel own these threads](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7359), we ensure they get destroyed when the kernel gets destroyed. 
> Thus the crash is mitigated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
heinermann discovered a bug in the kernel that crashed yuzu upon exiting.

This happened because dummy threads in the kernel weren't getting destroyed properly. When yuzu was exited during emulation or after stopping emulation, these threads stayed alive even though the kernel got destroyed, thus causing yuzu to crash.

[By making the kernel own these threads](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7359), we ensure they get destroyed when the kernel gets destroyed. 
mitigating the crash.
```

Reviewer 3: Eh what?

> [OatmealDome](https://github.com/OatmealDome) fixed a bug that caused some homebrew to not boot. The fix was to 
> [pass default threadinfo when the kernel creates a thread](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7320), thus allowing homebrew to boot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[OatmealDome](https://github.com/OatmealDome) fixed a bug that caused some homebrew to not boot. The fix was to 
[pass default threadinfo when the kernel creates a thread](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7320), allowing homebrew to boot.
```

> ## Skyline framework, part 1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Skyline framework, Part 1
```

> [itsmeft24](https://github.com/itsmeft24), [jam1garner](https://github.com/jam1garner), and Morph started working in adding support for the 
> [Skyline](https://github.com/skyline-dev/skyline) modding framework. 
> This will allow for more intricate code mods, such as using [ARCropolis](https://github.com/Raytwo/ARCropolis), a mod loader for Smash Ultimate made by 
> [Raytwo](https://github.com/Raytwo) and [blujay](https://github.com/blu-dev).
> 
> [All](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7393) [these](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7394) [PRs](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7407) are part of the 
> on-going effort to implement support for modding framework in yuzu.
> 
> There are more juicy additions, but they didn't make it in time to be mentioned in this article, we will continue to expand on Skyline's progress in December's report.
> See the current progress [here](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/issues/7392).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[itsmeft24](https://github.com/itsmeft24), [jam1garner](https://github.com/jam1garner), and Morph started working on adding support for the 
[Skyline](https://github.com/skyline-dev/skyline) modding framework. 
This will allow for more intricate code mods, such as using [ARCropolis](https://github.com/Raytwo/ARCropolis), a mod loader for Smash Ultimate made by 
[Raytwo](https://github.com/Raytwo) and [blujay](https://github.com/blu-dev).

All these PRs ([[1](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7393)], [[2](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7394)], [[3](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7407)) are part of the 
on-going effort to implement support for the modding framework in yuzu.

There are more juicy additions, but they didn't make it in time to be mentioned in this article, we will continue to expand on Skyline's progress in December's report.
See the current progress [here](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/issues/7392).
```

## General changes and bugfixes

Not much to talk about in this section this time, mostly just service stubs and implementations.

`Animal Crossing: New Horizons` takes the spotlight [with](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7283) [4](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7285) 
[stubs](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7287) to make the new 2.0.0 update playable. Thank you, german77 and Morph.

> german77 gives `Just Dance 2022` [its own stub](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7293) for the `EndFreeCommunication` service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
german77 also provides `Just Dance 2022` [with its own stub](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7293) for the `EndFreeCommunication` service.
```

And finally, Morph [implements the](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7482) `GetCompletionEvent` service for `Super Bomberman R Online`. 
Since the game requires online services, it won’t be playable for now.

## Future projects

> `Project Gaia` continues to progress and be optimized as we speak, we're not that far away from starting internal testing on it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Project Gaia` continues to progress and is receiving optimizations as we speak. We're not that far away from starting internal testing on it.
```
